Bridge documentation (#1235)
matrix-org/matrix-appservice-irc: docs/irc_operators.md

# IRC Operators

This chapter describes useful information about the bridge for IRC operators or IRC users.

The IRC bridge provides each Matrix user with one IRC connection in order to bridge them "natively"
into the IRC network, as so they can largely be treated as real users. Due to the 1:1 connection system,

> it is often useful that the IRCD network provide the bridge host with a more relaxed ILINE limit depending

Reviewer: I assume this is missing an "s". "the IRCD network" seems to be the subject here.
```suggestion
it is often useful that the IRCD network provides the bridge host with a more relaxed ILINE limit depending
```

> it is often useful that the IRCD network provide the bridge host with a more relaxed ILINE limit depending

Reviewer: IRCD and ILINE are terms that would benefit from a short explanation.
One needs to be very deep in the IRC terminology to be familiar with those.

Author: I think this is fine because the document mentions that you are expected to be an IRC operators. I will see if I can link to another page explaining it though.

on the number of Matrix users they'd expect to use the bridge.

### The Matrix experience

When a Matrix room is bridged to IRC, all users (by default) on the Matrix side will be provided with a connection
to the room and will show up in the user list on IRC. The IRC users will also appear as "ghosts" on the Matrix side,
bearing a Matrix ID like `@irc_alice:matrix.org`. This allows a "native" feeling so that users do not have to worry
about the complexities of the protocols. 

However as with all bridges, the native feeling can catch IRC or Matrix users unaware when things do not bridge well
(such as replies/threading or reactions).

### The [m]/-M suffix

By default, the IRC bridge will append a `-M` to nicks for Matrix users. This is to avoid clashes with a users

> real identity on IRC as well as to highlight that they are on the bridge (and may not even know they are on IRC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
real identity on IRC as well as to highlight that the users are on the bridge (and may not even know the conversation is bridged to IRC).
```

* [Half-Shot] is using a secure connection
* [Half-Shot] is logged in as Half-Shot
* [Half-Shot] End of WHOIS list.
```

### Portals and Plumbed

A Matrix room can be connected to a IRC network in one of two ways:

- A portal room, which is a Matrix room created by the bridge on demand when a Matrix user attempts
  to join an alias that does not yet exist. E.g. `#freenode_#myproject:matrix.org`. The bridge will
  hold power over this room and grant moderator status (half-power) to any IRC operators or Matrix users
  with IRC ops in the room.
- A plumbed room (also known as provisioning). A Matrix user may create a room ahead of time for their
  community and later on decide to "plumb in" IRC users to that room. They can do this via an interative
  UI in Element, via the `!plumb` command or even via a HTTP endpoint. If done interatively, the bridge
  has a verification process to ensure the user on the Matrix side has the blessing of the IRC ops first.
  However, it's possible for the IRC bot to lack kick abilities in the room so kicks and bans may not be
  bridged both ways.

Additionally, a channel may be connected to one portal and multiple plumbed rooms without issue as the 

> messages from Matrix users are replicated to the other rooms for them. We typically do not reccomend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
messages from Matrix users are replicated to the other rooms for them. We typically do not recommend
```

multiple points of entry to the channel due to the obvious confusion this causes.

### Connection failure

If a Matrix user fails to join a channel due to a ban, they are kicked from it. If the Matrix user
fails to get a connection to IRC at all, they are also kicked from any rooms they are part of. The exception

> to this rule is if the bridge bot (which does the kicking) lacks permissions in the room, where it
> will be unable to perform any action.

Reviewer: This permission specifically, or are there others required?
```suggestion
to this rule is if the bridge bot (which does the kicking) lacks permission to kick members of the room.
```

### Line limits

The IRC bridge allows admins to configure a maximum amount of lines that can be sent at a time to a channel
by a Matrix user. The Matrix spec allows events to be sent by users up to 65k in size, so with some margin for

> event padding, a message could feasabily be over 64k in size. The Matrix spec has no limit on how many lines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
event padding, a message could feasibly be over 64k in size. The Matrix spec has no limit on how many lines
```
